This is my first word vomit. I learned about this from meadow.cafe in their 
first word vomit post (https://meadow.cafe/blog/0001-setting-wordvomit-goals/). 
The idea seems to be to write 1000 words daily or as often as you can without 
any script or goal. The frigthening thing about it is to write 1000 of those. 
The interesting thing about it is that most necessarily your writing has to 
become better. Well - we will see.

Language-wise I'm not sure if it is smart to not write this in my mother tongue,
but then again this content here is English and it is always good to improve my
English further and to ensure it sounds a little bit less German than the day
before.

Some thoughts for today are on LLMs. Having read recent post on Reddit channel
/r/LocalLlama with the obliguatory "I did not believe it before, but I tried the
newest model and it will change everything" post I felt the need to summarize
what I know about the thing (let's come back to what that thing is later) that 
is actually happening:

1. LLM models work in the medium of language only
2. LLM models do symbol processing in the form of token prediction
3. The tokens they predict are symbols for us human users
4. Humans operate in a multitude of media (music, art, math, logic, money, 
   power, influence) of which all are distinct from pure language

With above statements I do primarily refer to the term "medium" as understand by
Talcott Parsons sociological theory of Generalized Symbolic Media and its
generalization to all communiction by Luhmann. All the media being properties 
of the social systems we live in, are part of, do constitute.

If this holds true LLMs in their agent form we see today do fail to replace
human living/being part of/constituting of social systems. The reduction in
those discussions is so far away from human life. And at the same time the
actual will-to-power medium in which those statements do work is not reflected
at all. Do I reflect it when talking about it? Maybe not fully, but I'm at least
pointing a finger at it.

One standard argument arising from a discussion where you argument like above is
a reduction in the form of "all those derived media originate from language" 
and language is the primary unversial medium. Which of course is a very American
position of analytical philosophy of language. I won't bring the arguments
against it (others have). I just feel a need to mark the need for this
reduction.

My immediate layman psychological diagnosis is the childish god complex which
requires things to be easy, LLMs make things easier, so the medium they work
in MUST be easy and general. To be honest I often take part in this feeling.

What I learned from the constant online pro/contra AGI/breakthrough arguments
is that so far I value my IT programming, abstract thinking, design, 
architecture skills to high and in the same way more general than they are.
LLMs have shown how they can do the same and now I know these are skillls purely
or mostly language based. Pattern recognition, examplification and touching upon
problems, solutions, ideas. This in contrast to my intuition of those being more
grounded in wordly feed back loops of all kinds. Then again in IT engineering
we have requirements engineering and design to address this lack of world 
mapping. This should be a hint. The reality is often that those two activities
are mostly skipped in projects. And now we suddenly have prompt engineering and
to "stay relevant" you ought to be good in it. And prompt engineering is "just"
about the experience to write the best prompt to elicit perfect result from the
zoo of AI agents.

So it seems that prompt engineering is the new skill name where the actual
world mapping (of requirements, use cases, scenarios and designs) hides. This 
leads to the question if this world mapping maps from THE WORLD to a medium of
language easily processed by LLMs what are the source media? And how does the
translation magic work. There must be real translation otherwise software just
would not do anything useful. So there is necessarily a way to translate needs, 
power, money to software structure / information. I guess there is propably
structuralist literature. Sadly I do not have an overview on it. But funnily
the thought nudges: "Why not ask a chat bot?". I won't for now.

Argh... still 250 words to go.

One thing worth making explicit for me is that I want to enjoy the optimism of
those "this newest model will change everything" people. I do recognize the 
child in this with boundless positivity and Nietzsches holy will-to-power "yes"
at work. In my opposition I recognize the imprint of generations of adults 
putting down such childish behaviour as fruitless, over-the-top, far from 
reality, in German a "Wolkenkuckucksheim". As always both views must be able
to hold true at the same time. Letting both be true mean not damping the 
will-to-power "yes" while grounding the result of the things being done. 

And here we are back at the question from the start: there is something being 
done. The label is "AI". The macro-economic form is maybe a Kondratjew cycle. 
But we are doing something. Sure it is definitively a new wave of capitalistic
overcoding. But we are doing something. 

As always we invent new machines to use. New tools to attach to our bodily
being. Extending limbs, senses, in this case extending the tool set with which
we work in the medium language. As always there is a fear that the new tool or
machine becomes a monster to big to let us move, tying us down with its
gargantuan instrumentarium. 

But looking back did we every invent machines that were to big for us? A bicycle
that prevented us from cycling? A car that we cannot move anymore? A steam 
machine whose power we could not direct to producing something?
