This is word vomit #0002. A followup on yesterdays thoughts on what we do when 
we do invent/use/breakthrough LLM style AI: what comes into view is that all the
accounts you find in those LLM news blogs/forums/Reddit channels is that all
the talks is about

- what the AI does
- what the AI does not
- what the AI does to us

and to lesser degree

- what the AI company did to produce/effect this AI
- what tech-savy tech-bro-future-guys will do with the AI to stay relevant

but never

- how individuals did new stuff that enabled AI
- in which mindset and intrinsiv motivation they birthed their inventions
- how conscious "AI users" use "AI"
- how we as a responsible society allow for "AI use case"
- how we open up spaces for "AI"
- how we (e.g. by having red lines) also allow for the idea of not using "AI"
- how entirely independant of this an individual properly weights in and
  for her/himself takes a stance and how this stance means something

The standard media narrative has become pre-structured as a positivistic 
happening which affects users and is being facilitate by mega corps and nothing
else. I had the experience of living youth in Eastern Germany as a child often
buying into that dream of progress, that just takes you aways with it like it 
did with all the bourgeoise minded people. No matter what you think now it will
convince you in the end, sure you can resist now, but why not ride the wave?

That Hegelian welt-geist history surely reduces invidivual responsibility and
sets up a disproportionally large collective responsibility with a preformed
progressive opinion to buy into. Is it ok to not be ok with not handing over
my own responsibility? Especially as a German? Nowadays it seems okish.

Still I think I fail life when not finding a stance routed in my perspective
that I actualize now and then, which I allow and encourage friends and 
aquaintances to challenge. A stance which I even like if it crushes under a 
friends or strangers fierce arguments because I know a better one will take its
place.

The thing is when we discuss such normative stuff in social media in 1 op 
posting something to be discussed by 12 considerate/interested people, 256 
trolls and 17 bots this setup does not facilitate the same change of 
constructive stance crushing. Even in a chat group with peers it is hard to
escape social dynamics overpowering the good arguments. For me still the best 
for this is a real-life one on one talk.

---

On to a new trail of thought: I'd like to have some golden rules of projection.
With projection I mean the psychoanalytical concept termed by Freud. What I'm
missing in ordinary language are golden rules on how live in a utilizing way
with the fact of there being projection. Maybe even affirming projection, but
at least utilizing the knowledge of it. After all the basics of psychoanalysis
as a type of possible practical knowledge are available now for over 100 years.

And what do we find in ordinary language? Everything about sexual repression,
in some societies significantly more focus on anal retention than others. Here
and there people have an idea what Oedipus is about...

What about some naive golden rules of projection? Let me try:

1. There are always projections.
2. Do not try to remove them. Because rule #1

And now add a bit of Lacan

3. You are not the projections.
4. The projections happen between you and other people.
5. You are the screen on which the projections appear.

And what do we modern cultured people do with a screen? We watch it. We never do
not watch it. We know that it is best to enjoy watching. To suffer along with
what we do see, to feel joy and maybe a tear cooling the blushing cheek when I 
see others joyful moments in a movie. The absolute utterly destroying sadness
when a dog is being killed...

So projections that are not me are always around. They are what I see. That they
are there makes my screen-being and the alterity of those projections real. What
is also real is my being a projection on others screens. Me being a multitude of
projections on the screen-beings of others I'm in a relationship of maybe love,
hate, work with or have just randomly met. 

Now to the normative level: Me being a screen on which projections appear mean
I ought to accept the reality of others as I'm projecting on there real screens.
I also should not hold my projections for real, but only the others display of
the projection. I shall accept there are real others for the fact I can see 
myself with them. I actually cannot unsee myself. Note how to contradicts to
common sense about how hard it is to know thyself. So I shall accept that I 
always will see myself in this world of "other" mirrors. I shall be glad how
easy it is to recognize myself in others. In the end I should even measure 
others the same way. Most healthy abled humans can know about themselves, our
images is right in front of our faces with the other. Given how many different
people I meet I should accept the multitude of facets in myself. Given how with
others no character type dominates maybe there is none dominating myself no 
matter what all those character type schemata say? Given how much pure hate is
out there I should look more closely at the excessive world hate residing in
my subconscious depths. 

Now to the question of the possibility of change? Many demand that the hate out
there is pushed back as it will poison society and future. Sure it will, but
seeing this as a projection how do you go about pushing this back in your mind?
I think this is nothing that can be hoped for and nothing to be acted upon. From
a projection standpoint affirming this projections is what is to be done and if
you can, if I can loving them.
